@SCENARIO
@width=400
@title=WORLD WAR ONE - THE WAR TO END ALL WARS
^^THE TIME: October 1914.
^^THE PLACE: Europe, the Middle East and the Atlantic.
^^THE MISSION: Lead your country through World War One.
^^
@listbox6
@options
TIME LINE
%
FOLLOWING the outbreak of the war in June and July 1914 the
main powers mobilised their armies to fight against their
enemies. "The war will be over before the leaves fall",
Wilhelm II shouted at his soldiers in August 1914. Now it is
October and Germany lost the first round. The Schlieffen Plan
has failed and it seems to be a dark first winter: On the
Western Front the soldiers made up positions nearly impossible
to penetrate and the Russian Steamroller stands at the borders
of Prussia though Germany has won the Battle of Tannenberg
and Germany큦 allies, the weak Habsburg Monarchy desperately
tries to defend the Carpathians to secure the Hungarian Low
Lands and Serbia is still alive.
%
THE MAIN POWERS
%
RUSSIAN EMPIRE - The Steamroller - playable
Allied with France for years the Russian Empire sent its
vast forces westwards. Russia has the world큦 largest army
but the niveau of the recruits is not too high and the
Tsarist Regime just survived a Bolshevik Insurrection
in 1905, only a few years ago ...
%
AUSTRIA-HUNGARY - Middle Europe큦 Warden - playable
The old Habsburg Empire declared war upon Serbia on
June 28 asking for german aid. Now it seems that the Austrian
Army stands between two front lines as well as Germany. Can
you hold the empire together?
%
GERMAN EMPIRE - Perfect Militarism - playable
The ally of Franz Josef, Wilhelm II, wanted to gain a fast
and furious victory over France. This has not happenend
because Great Britain stands along with France and Russia.
Now Germany stands between the Western Allies and the Russian
Steamroller. Can you turn the tide?
%
OTTOMAN EMPIRE - The Weak Man at the Bosporus - playable
As the title says, the glorious days of the once famous
Ottoman Empire are long gone. Only Germany stands side by
side with the Turkish Sultan and its minor ally, Bulgaria,
who are covering the Balkan flank and controlling the main
supply route of Russia, the Bosporus Strait.
%
UNITED STATES - The Sleeping Giant - playable
The American President Woodrow Wilson has no interest in
the war that Europe큦 major powers are fighting for supremacy
but the American Economy wants the USA to join the war to
increase their wealth though the US Army is no match for
the European Armies ...
%
ENTENTE CORDIALE - France and Great Britian - playable
Never this had happened before: Great Britain and France are
standing side by side against the German Struggle for
Supremacy. The small British Expeditionary Force played an
important role in the Battle of the Marne in September 1914.
Can the German Juggernaut be overthrown?
%
ITALY
The Kingdom of Italy was bound to Germany and Austria-Hungary
before the outbreak of the war a few months ago but the Italian
Government gambles high and only enters the war for substantial
loans and territories though the Italian Army is not prepared.
%
No Pollution - No Government Switching - Research and Survive ...
View the Readme file for additional information!
@end -- this line must be here!